So far what have we done?
Well, what you have done is to
learn to segment, incorporating variables
that provide you with a lot of information
and that people do not usually incorporate,
because why they buy us, the benefit,
I don't know how they use us,
things like that.
So what you did is apply those
variables to your target market
or current customers and for each
of those variables you have
segments, for each you have
segments.
We talked about geography, because
if you introduce the geographic variable,
you will have a geographical
segmentation.
If you enter the profit segment,
you will have a profit segmentation.
But what do we have?
We have segments.
What are the segments?
Well, because segments are like masses of
people, aren't they?
You can measure a segment, you
can quantify it, but you
can't describe a segment, you
can't analyze it.
So what we're going to do is move
from segments to people.
That is, we will turn those
masses into people and for
that we will use a tool that
is the customer person, which
is a tool or a very powerful
concept, which we recommend
and always use.
What is the Customer Person?
The customer person is a fictional
person, usually fictional, that
you have created and that is representative
of your customers.
That is, you have several customer
people who are representative
of your customers, your most important
segments, etc.
And what we do is describe
each of those people,
we will turn them into
real people.
We will understand them very well.
We will provide a lot of information
about each of them.
And why do this?
Why go from segmentation
to a number of customer
people?
One, but usually you have more,
three, five, depends on each situation,
but not a thousand, right?
Why is it?
For many reasons.
The first, because behind
your results, your sales,
behind marketing, what's
there?
There are customers and customers who
are, are people.
So it's much better to think
of people, not masses.
We are very aware of our
customers, that we become
a customer-centric company.
This word that came out of fashion
a few years ago and with which consultants
have earned so much money
and so, right?
Selling projects of this,
that I did.
A customer-centered company, a company
that is close to its customers,
who thinks about its customers,
who has them present, who understands
them, well, because it helps,
right?
Instead of thinking about segments, who
are we addressing?
Think of children, think of people.
And we can even, this is a recommendation,
it is to share it with the entire
organization, that everyone
has a mindset on who are our
customers.
Know them well and understand them well.
The customer person helps us in this
process of investigating your client,
of consulting things, of understanding
him every day better, helps
us a lot.
If you have segments, you
don't know, right?
That is, it is very difficult to understand or
investigate them and to know them more and more
every day.
But when you have a reference, when you
have turned it into a person, even if
it is fictional, because it is as easy
as going to him and trying to understand
him better.
Here I'm putting an example that, well,
can be a bit stupid, but in the shipwreck
movie, Wilson is like the character
that creates, isn't it?
Tom Hanks, so that he can accompany her
and others and talk to him, well, because
we can't illustrate a little.
We are not creating people we have
to understand and we almost have
to give them life.
Another benefit that is the result of the
above is that, of course, when you know
your customers very well, we have said
it a thousand times, but it is that
I think it is important to emphasize it.
When you know your customers very well,
when you know what goes through their
head, when you know what they do,
what they like, what they don't
like, what they think of you, why
they buy you, etc., a thousand things,
imagine everything you can improve.
I don't know, then your ads, your website,
all the sales discourses you make,
etc., everything you do,
right?
The products also, because it is that
you can improve a lot and, therefore,
you will sell a lot more.
Let's see how it is done.
Let us summarize it in two steps.
The first thing you need to
do is identify them.
Who are my customer people?
And that's where people do it badly.
It does hurt.
That is, you have to go from having,
then, some knowledge of your customers,
your market, segmentation
and so on, to say, but how do
I identify now, I don't know,
four customer concrete people?
How do I do it?
Well, that is the first step.
And the next step is, when you have
identified them, you have to
describe them, you have
to analyze them, that we will see
in a later class.
All the information we should know
about our customers and that almost
no one knows to understand them well.
Let's look at how to identify them.
First, I want you to be clear one
thing and it is that I assure
you, although when you put it you
find it difficult, that you can
create or identify a series of
customer people X, we will put
you that five, every time I say
a different number, but good, that
is, they are not very many,
that with five customer people or
sometimes with much less, understanding
them, looking at them, deepening
in them and selling them to
them, you will be able to sell
much more to all your customers
and you will be able to
extrapolate these conclusions
to all customers.
That's what, that's the first thing
I want you to have in mind, because
a lot of people are stuck.
Then we will see why.
But I assure you, I assure you
that they are really representative
of what is important.
This guy, this customer person can
be 21 years old, but the same, it
is representative of people who instead
of 21 years old has 48, but in the
important in relation to you is representative
and understanding him well,
you can sell much more to the
48, because in this case the
important variable segmentation
will not be the age.
I am advancing.
Well, well, how do you identify
customer people?
The only thing you have to do is to
have the variables segmented.
What you usually do is cross
those variables or have them
all together.
We cross the age, the profile,
the benefit, how it uses us, for
what, etc.
We cross them, that can be, there
are people who do it with a matrix,
there are people who do it in a
more, good, more intuitive
way, pointing them all together and
that should give us, if we did
well, we should be able to identify
a series of customer people, crossing
them, crossing them the important
variables, because of course,
if you cross all the variables,
then imagine, imagine
that age is not important.
You cross the age with the
profession, with the civil state,
with that you get a million customer
person, but as I said, you can,
you can always, if you cross the
important variables, you will
be able to identify a series,
no, that is, a series, I say,
a few customer people.
The second way to do this is that sometimes
even, even if it is, it seems less methodological
and so, we do it and almost it is that
we are better or maybe we should
put together the two, it is to think
about your current customers and
think about current customers
that are representative in general
of the rest.
I don't know, think of five customers
that are representative of what
is important, those who adore you, who
are the heliodopts, well, I don't know,
they're sure you think of them,
think of them and then already parts
of a real person or a real company,
if you sell to the B2B
and analyze them, analyze them,
look at them, it's less abstract,
feel tened and analyze them and
the starting point that is.
And now I will end up explaining
that this always costs me, it costs
me to understand, but then with
the next class in which we will
talk about the custom, some
customer people in the Power MBA,
I think it will understand
better, I will explain why people
do not do well the customer person,
why everyone knows this, the
customer person and sell projects
of this and that, there are
agencies that do, these dynamics,
but then almost everyone,
yes, very chulo and that,
but then they do
not use it.
Why is it?
I'll tell you that I'll tell you that
two reasons, the first is that they
pick up templates of these that are
closed, that there are thousands around,
then they describe the customer person
and what they do is are detailing
information that is not really important,
because they put this guy on the
screen or whoever, it doesn't matter,
I invent it and then they describe,
because well, he has 37 years, he
has wife and children, he works in
an insurance company, he
has an income of not know how much,
he likes the sport, daddy,
I know, I don't know, I'm inventing
everything.
Well, then they have described a person
and this results that they can not then,
when they do the process of extrapolating
it to other clients, to the rest
of customers, because they can
not extrapolate it because they
say, because it is my other
clients, what do I do?
What do I do?
A customer person for each of them,
who do not have 37 years, do not
work in an insurance company,
etc., then there is already complicating,
they are already blocked, which is
also the result of the next cause,
that people do not do it well, is
that they are not really considering
the important variables
of segmentation, they are not focusing
on the important things, eye,
the important things depend
on what you sell, sometimes it can
be the variable, the ADAS and
the profession, but sometimes not,
but that not in all cases you
have to describe everything,
right?
What you have to keep in mind is
what are the important variables,
truly important and focus,
and from those variables, focus
on them and you will be
noticed the customer person
and you have to describe them
in that and then if you are 37
years old and work in insurance
or not, if it is not important
because you do not wear on that,
because the same for the important
variable, I know, that buys
you because it has a problem of
not know what, health, imagine,
and that is the important thing,
because then you have 21 or 38
years of age doesn't matter,
but you have to identify all
who buy you because they have
a health problem, create a
customer and understand it well
why you buy, why you don't
buy, how you compare with the
competition, etc, etc,
etc, etc, and there will be
many of your customers who
have that same, that they
buy you for
But if what you do is the typical
template and you wear it off,
then it's like it's squaring you
off because you can't extrapolate
it to the rest of the customers.
It may not have been understood
much of this, so what I am going
to do is, I will tell you an
example now below of how
we have, from some of the customer
person of Power Envie and how
we have moved from segments
to customer person.